Add a post about cross-government Slack (#64)
x-govuk/x-govuk.github.io: app/posts/how-to-use-cross-government-slack.md

---
title: How to use cross-government Slack
description: Tips on how to join and make the most of the cross-government Slack workspace.
date: 2023-05-19
tags: post
layout: post
author:
  name: Steve Messer
  url: https://github.com/stevenjmesser
image:
  src: 
  alt: 
  opengraphImage: true
---

[Cross-government Slack](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/) is a Slack workspace for anyone working in central government, with channels on a range of topics. It's a place to connect with other people working on digital services across government.

## How to join

> The workspace is open to anyone working in central government with a `.gov.uk` email address. If you're a contracter or agency working with a central government organisation, you may need to ask for a `.gov.uk` address to join the Slack.

Reviewer: The workspace is open to anyone working in government with a `.gov.uk` email address, and other qualified public sector organisations. If you're a contractor or commercial supplier working with a public sector organisation, you will need to ask for a `.gov.uk` address (or other qualified public sector email address) before you can join this Slack Workspace.

A number of public sector email domains are able to sign-up without being invited, the list of these can be viewed via https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/signup#/domain-signup.

For public sector organisations not on the email domain list, they can be invited by any existing Slack Workspace member.

Reviewer 2: @joelgsamuel thanks! Do you know anything about the history of the cross-gov Slack that you could contribute to the post? Would be nice to set out a bit of the context, and show how it has evolved over time!

Reviewer: Being cautious, I suspect that might need to be reviewed by the CDDO or CO Press Office, so not something I'm comfortable drafting. I'll check in with some folks though!

---
title: How to use cross-government Slack
description: Tips on how to join and make the most of the cross-government Slack workspace.
date: 2023-06-27

> tags: post
> layout: post

Reviewer 3: After rebasing `main`, these front matter values are no longer needed.

```suggestion
```

author:
  name: Steve Messer
  url: https://github.com/stevenjmesser
image:
  src: 

>   alt: 

Reviewer 3: Happy to add an illustration to this post; does anyone know how to add commits to a branch on a forked repo? Alternatively, can merge this in and add illustration later?

  opengraphImage: true
---

> [Cross-government Slack](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/) is a Slack workspace for anyone working in central government, with channels on a range of topics. It's a place to connect with other people working on digital services across government.

Reviewer 3: (Me being overly finicky, part 1) Although I think quotes render correctly regardless of input text, think we use smart quotes in source copy (just checked and that’s mostly the case, will go and fix the ones in previous posts that were missed!)

This is the first of a few ‘straight’ quotes:

```suggestion
[Cross-government Slack](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/) is a Slack workspace for anyone working in central government, with channels on a range of topics. It’s a place to connect with other people working on digital services across government.
```

## A bit of history

The cross-government Slack was created by the [Government Digital Service](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/government-digital-service) (GDS) in 2015 as a way for GDS to collaborate with other public sector digital service teams.

Over time, the workspace naturally grew and became a place to share knowledge on all things about digital, data and technology in the public sector.

The workspace is overseen by the [Central Digital & Data Office](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/central-digital-and-data-office).

## Why should you use it?

There's tons of reasons to use cross-government Slack. Here's a list of what I've found useful, but there's probably parts of the workspace I haven't made use of yet!

> - Network with other people in similar roles, for sharing techniques and tools
> - Find out about new programmes of work or job vacancies
> - Learn from other teams on how they approach accessibility
> - Discuss and share examples of applying the GOV.UK Design System to your service
> - Get help and support using GOV.UK Pay and GOV.UK Notify
> - Find meeting rooms in other government buildings
> - Keep up with what other people are working on in the [#weeknotes](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/archives/CE2K1LU3Y) channel

Reviewer 3: (Me being overly finicky, part 2) Just to be consistent with Markdown used in other posts:

```suggestion
* Network with other people in similar roles, for sharing techniques and tools
* Find out about new programmes of work or job vacancies
* Learn from other teams on how they approach accessibility
* Discuss and share examples of applying the GOV.UK Design System to your service
* Get help and support using GOV.UK Pay and GOV.UK Notify
* Find meeting rooms in other government buildings
* Keep up with what other people are working on in the [#weeknotes](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/archives/CE2K1LU3Y) channel
```

> The cool thing about cross-government Slack is that no question is too silly, and there are always kind people around who are willing to help you out. It's an open, inviting community and questions are usually answered quite quickly. I was involved in a workshop looking at the benefits of cross-government Slack recently, and other people who were part of the session said the same. They mentioned shared problem-solving, learning about agile and delivery management, and collaboration as examples of how using cross-government Slack had impacted their day-to-day work positively.

Reviewer 3: Break-up paragraph to make it slightly easier to read:

```suggestion
The cool thing about cross-government Slack is that no question is too silly, and there are always kind people around who are willing to help you out. It's an open, inviting community and questions are usually answered quite quickly.

I was involved in a workshop looking at the benefits of cross-government Slack recently, and other people who were part of the session said the same. They mentioned shared problem-solving, learning about agile and delivery management, and collaboration as examples of how using cross-government Slack had impacted their day-to-day work positively.
```

## Be careful what you say

Like all digital communication channels used by public servants, the cross-government Slack workspace is subject to Freedom of Information regulation. All messages, both public and private, group or direct, could be requested, reviewed and released. If you're in doubt about whether you can say something or talk about it, check the [Civil Service Code](https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/civil-service-code/the-civil-service-code) or ask for help in the [#ask-an-admin](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/archives/C039WM501EK) channel.

## How to join

The workspace is open to anyone working in government with a `.gov.uk` email address, and other qualified public sector organisations. If you're a contractor or commercial supplier working with a public sector organisation, you will need to ask for a `.gov.uk` address (or other qualified public sector email address) before you can join this Slack workspace.

A number of public sector email domains are able to sign-up without being invited, so check out the [list of allowed email domains](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/signup#/domain-signup).

> For public sector organisations not on the email domain list, they can be invited by any existing Slack workspace member.

Reviewer 3: Trailing new line on Markdown posts:

```suggestion
For public sector organisations not on the email domain list, they can be invited by any existing Slack workspace member.

```

---
title: How to use cross-government Slack
description: Tips on how to join and make the most of the cross-government Slack workspace.
date: 2023-06-27
author:
  name: Steve Messer
  url: https://github.com/stevenjmesser
image:
  src: 
  alt: 
  opengraphImage: true
---

[Cross-government Slack](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/) is a Slack workspace for anyone working in central government, with channels on a range of topics. It’s a place to connect with other people working on digital services across government.

## A bit of history

The cross-government Slack was created by the [Government Digital Service](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/government-digital-service) (GDS) in 2015 as a way for GDS to collaborate with other public sector digital service teams.

> Over time, the workspace naturally grew and became a place to share knowledge on all things about digital, data and technology in the public sector.

Reviewer 2: Worth mentioning that the Slack also started to be used as an official support channel?

```suggestion
Over time, the workspace naturally grew and became a place to share knowledge on all things about digital, data and technology in the public sector. It also started to be used an an official support channel by some product teams, such as the GOV.UK Design System and GOV.UK Notify.
```

> The workspace is overseen by the [Central Digital & Data Office](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/central-digital-and-data-office).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The workspace is now managed by the [Central Digital & Data Office](https://www.gov.uk/government/organisations/central-digital-and-data-office).
```

## Why should you use it?

> There's tons of reasons to use cross-government Slack. Here's a list of what I've found useful, but there's probably parts of the workspace I haven't made use of yet!
> 
> * Network with other people in similar roles, for sharing techniques and tools
> * Find out about new programmes of work or job vacancies
> * Learn from other teams on how they approach accessibility
> * Discuss and share examples of applying the GOV.UK Design System to your service
> * Get help and support using GOV.UK Pay and GOV.UK Notify
> * Find meeting rooms in other government buildings
> * Keep up with what other people are working on in the [#weeknotes](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/archives/CE2K1LU3Y) channel

Reviewer 2: This list is great! I think it'd read slightly better with a shorter lead-in, and changing the tense.  Also lets us end the lead in with a colon, and have the list be lowercase. The second bit of the lead in could come after the list?

```suggestion
There's tons of reasons to use cross-government Slack. Here's what I've found useful:

* networking with other people in similar roles, to share techniques and tools
* finding out about new programmes of work or job vacancies
* learning from other teams on how they approach accessibility
* discussing and sharing examples of applying the GOV.UK Design System to services
* getting help and support using GOV.UK Pay and GOV.UK Notify
* finding meeting rooms in other government buildings
* keeping up with what other people are working on in the [#weeknotes](https://ukgovernmentdigital.slack.com/archives/CE2K1LU3Y) channel

There's probably also parts of the workspace I haven't made use of yet!
```

Author: Looks good. Thanks for fixing the Markdown syntax too, I usually use hyphens for lists but didn’t check what was used on other files.

Reviewer 2: That was @paulrobertlloyd. I don’t really care about such things. 😉

The cool thing about cross-government Slack is that no question is too silly, and there are always kind people around who are willing to help you out. It's an open, inviting community and questions are usually answered quite quickly.

> I was involved in a workshop looking at the benefits of cross-government Slack recently, and other people who were part of the session said the same. They mentioned shared problem-solving, learning about agile and delivery management, and collaboration as examples of how using cross-government Slack had impacted their day-to-day work positively.

Reviewer 2: Suggested rewording, as "said the same" threw me on first read through (presumably a reference to previous paragraph?).

```suggestion
I was involved in a workshop looking at the benefits of cross-government Slack recently with colleagues from across government. We all agreed that the cross-government Slack has positively impacted our day-to-day work by enabling collaboration, shared problem-solving and learning about agile and delivery management.
```
